{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\b GCC Control Tower — Authentication & Audit Implementation Summary}\par
\par
{\b Overview}\par
Implemented standalone login, server-side sessions, admin user management, password-setup flow, and audit logs. Minimal frontend changes (standalone pages + silent session check). Backend updated with Prisma models and auth routes.
\par
\par
{\b Files Added / Modified}\par
- backend/prisma/schema.prisma  \par
- backend/controllers/authController.js  \par
- backend/routes/authRoutes.js  \par
- backend/middleware/sessionMiddleware.js  \par
- backend/utils/audit.js  \par
- backend/controllers/auditController.js  \par
- backend/routes/auditRoutes.js  (mounted in server.js) \par
- backend/controllers/taskController.js (audit calls added) \par
- backend/routes/taskRoutes.js (audit on create) \par
- backend/routes/infraTaskRoutes.js (audit on create/update) \par
- backend/server.js (cookie-parser, loadSession, mount auth & audit routes) \par
- backend/package.json (added bcrypt, cookie-parser) \par
- frontend/public/login.html (standalone login) \par
- frontend/public/password-set.html (password setup) \par
- frontend/index.html (silent session-check script) \par
\par
{\b Behavior / Design Choices}\par
- Authentication: server-side sessions stored in DB (`Session` model), session token in an HTTP-only cookie named `sid`.\par
- Admin: single admin registration endpoint (`/auth/register-admin`) to initialize admin. Admin can create users (returns a `resetToken`), list users, and disable (restrict) users.\par
- Password flow: created users get `mustSetPassword=true` and a `resetToken`; user sets password via `password-set.html` posting to `/auth/set-password`.\par
- Audit logs: server-side `AuditLog` model; backend writes audit entries for create/update of `Task` and `InfraTask`. Admin can query `/audit`.\par
- Frontend: the app pages remain unchanged; a small silent check in `frontend/index.html` redirects to `/login.html` if `/auth/me` returns 401. The login page is standalone (no app navigation).\par
\par
{\b Prisma Models Added}\par
- User (id, email, name, password (bcrypt hash), role, disabled, mustSetPassword, resetToken, resetTokenExpires, sessions, audits)\par
- Session (token, userId, expiresAt)\par
- AuditLog (userId, action, entity, entityId, details, ip, userAgent)\par
\par
{\b How To Run Locally}\par
1) Backend deps and start:\par
  cd "c:\\Local Dashboard copy\\gcc-control-tower\\backend"\par
  npm install\par
\par
2) Prisma generate & migrate (ensure DATABASE_URL is set):\par
  npx prisma generate\par
  npx prisma migrate dev --name add_auth_and_audit\par
(If migrate is not possible: `npx prisma db push` to update schema.)\par
\par
3) Start backend:\par
  node server.js\par
\par
4) Frontend:\par
  cd "c:\\Local Dashboard copy\\gcc-control-tower\\frontend"\par
  npm install\par
  npm run dev\par
\par
{\b Quick Examples}\par
- Register initial admin (only if none exists):\par
  curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/auth/register-admin -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d '{"email":"admin@example.com","password":"YourPass!","name":"Admin"}'\par
\par
- Login (sets cookie):\par
  curl -i -X POST http://localhost:3001/auth/login -H "Content-Type: application/json" -c cookiejar.txt -d '{"email":"admin@example.com","password":"YourPass!"}'\par
\par
- Create user (admin):\par
  curl -X POST http://localhost:3001/auth/users -H "Content-Type: application/json" -b cookiejar.txt -d '{"email":"user@example.com","name":"Alice"}'\par
  (response includes resetToken)\par
\par
- View audit logs (admin):\par
  curl -b cookiejar.txt "http://localhost:3001/audit?limit=200"\par
\par
{\b Notes & Next Steps}\par
- Email sending (for delivering reset links) is not implemented — recommended next step.\par
- In production enable `secure: true` on cookies and use HTTPS.\par
- You can expand audit instrumentation to more endpoints or add a client-side audit API for UI-driven events.\par
- If you want, I can add a simple admin frontend to manage users and view audit logs.\par
\par
{\b Where the document is saved}\par
Auth-implementation-summary.rtf at repository root: `c:\\Local Dashboard copy\\gcc-control-tower\\Auth-implementation-summary.rtf`\par
\par
{\b Contact}\par
If you want the same content as a true .docx, or emailed, I can generate a .docx or provide the file for download — tell me which format you prefer.\par
}
